# NerdSwag E-commerce-shop
This is a repository for the Front-End of my NerdSwag E-commerce shop project. I made a project to simulate e-commerce shop themed around selling products from my favorite games and shows as if the products were real. I made this project to learn and gain more experience in fullstack web development. This repository is for the front-end portion of my project and you should check out my back-end portion of the project by going to the NerdSwag-API repository.

# What I Learned & Funtionality
I learned how to recieve, add, and edit data in the MongoDB database through HTTP requests and a HTTP service component to communicate with the NerdSwag-API server from the front-end. I figured out how to use and interact between different React components. I also figured out how to use props and states appropriately within and between components. I also succeeded in learning how to use promises as well as async/await to appropriately compute and return the correct data. In order to make sure data goes through the right computations for the wishlist and cart component, I learned how a singleton pattern works. I implemented singleton pattern data services for the wishlist and cart respectively. I learned how to make sure the right order of computations execute for the wishlist and cart components respectively, through a notification service, observers, and global constants. I discovered how to implement the functionality of accounts for the user to create an account, login into an account, logout from an account, and to have account authorization so the user has to have the right username and password to login. I set up an authorization for when a user creates an account so no one can create an account with either the same username, password, and/or email from another user's account. Furthermore, I implemented the front-end to utilize the recieved data from the server for computations that entail purchasing, showing the remaining balance if the user purchases products in the cart before purchasing, showing the user's current available balance in the cart, showing the total cost of all the products within the user's cart, adding as well as removing products to and from the user's cart and wishlist, showing a condensed version of the products in the user's wishlist and/or cart, and displaying products, thier respective info, and images through bootstrap 4 cards; which are in organized rows and columns. When the user runs low on their available balance, they can edit their available balance once logged into their account. I learned how to change the display based on the state of the user being logged into their account or not being logged into their account to prevent the cart, wishlist, and product buttons to add/remove(depending if the product is already in the cart or wishlist) to display if the user isn't logged in to their account. If the user is logged into the account, the wishlist, cart, and product buttons will display properly. Finally, I made this web app have mobile compatibility and adjust display to look good on smart phone screen sizes.              

# Software and languages used
React, Javascript, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap 4, whatwg-fetch, JQuery, Tether, MongoDB, and npm(node package manager)
